Instructor: Duplex and speed negotiation
is also important for connections between a PC and a switch.
In this example, the PC is connected to the switch
using this interface ethernet two.
At the moment,
the speed negotiated is 100 megabits per second.
So here's the switch, show interface F 1 0 5.
This interface is currently running at full duplex 100 meg
on the switch, and that's what's been negotiated on the pc.
So we can see 100 megabits per second.
Now we could change some of the settings on the pc,
so if we wanted to we could change
the speed and duplex negotiation.
At the moment, it's using auto negotiation
but we could make a mistake
and set it to one gigabits per second full duplex.
On the switch, we see that the interface has gone down.
It's supposedly come up again, so I'll just look
at the duplex in the output.
The switch is using 100 meg full duplex,
and on the network card it's actually moved down
to 100 meg rather than using the gigabit speed
that we configured.
But if the PC had accepted that speed
of one gigabits per second full duplex,
we would've had a duplex and speed mismatch
between the switch and the pc
which would of course problems.
Let's set the PC to 10 meg
and see if they can still negotiate properly.
So interface has gone down.
It's come up, and in this case it has negotiated properly.
In gigabit ethernet, even when set manually,
the device will still tell the other side
what speed and duplex it's using.
So things are a lot better than they were in the past.
Let's set the side for auto negotiation
but what I'll do now is on the switch
configure it manually.
So interface F 1 0 5 do show run interface F 1 0 5.
Duplex and speed are not set, but let's set the speed
to 100 meg, duplex to full.
So the configuration looks as follows.
Interface has come up.
What is this site using?
It's using 100 megabits per second.
So do show interface F 1 0 5 pipe include duplex.
That looks good.
Let's set the duplex to half
and the speed to 10.
On this side, negotiation has taken place successfully
so things are a lot better
than they were years ago with duplex and speed,
but generally the recommendation is to use auto negotiation
of speed and duplex, allow both sides to negotiate
to the highest speed and duplex that they both support.
So I'll try and break this by going to 100 full duplex.
Interface has gone down and come up
but it's still successfully negotiated
so it's still showing the speed of 10 meg.
Let's however, configure it to go
to the best possible speed and duplex.
I'll set it to use auto negotiation.
And on the switch we'll set the speed
to auto duplex to auto,
and as we can see
show interface F 1 0 5 include duplex
the output shows full duplex 100 meg
so it has successfully negotiated
with the PC to use 100 meg full duplex.
So in summary, again auto negotiation is the way to go today
if you are gonna hard code
make sure that you hard code correctly on both sides.